%!TEX root = ../../common/main.tex

\chapter{Introduction}
\label{ch:introduction}

Discrete global symmetries play an outstanding role in the \SM. In particular,
the charge conjugation $\CSym$, the parity $\PSym$, and the time reversal
$\TSym$ transformations. The \CPT theorem \cite{set:cpt} states that the \CPT
symmetry holds for a quantum field theory, whereat the violation of a single of
the discrete symmetries $\CSym$, $\PSym$, or $\TSym$ is still possible.

Lee and Yang where the first to question the general assumption that all
physical interactions are invariant even under a single transformation by
stating a possible $\PSym$ violation in weak interaction \cite{Lee:1956qn}. This
statement was backed soon after by the measurement of $\PSym$ violation in the
$\beta^{-}$ decay of ${}^{60}\text{Co}$ \cite{Wu:1957my}. The experiment
revealed that the weak interaction only couples to fermions with left-handed
chirality or anti-fermions with right-handed chirality, thus also violating
symmetry under $\CSym$ transformation. Still, the interaction seems to behave
invariant under combined $\CP$ transformation. Not until 1964 the symmetry
violation under $\CP$ transformation was observed in the neutral kaon system
\cite{Christenson:1964fg} and consequently established in the \SM.

The work presented in this document would not have been possible to achieve if
not an innumerable number of people was involved. Starting from the design,
construction, and operation of the \acs{LHCb} detector over to establishing an
infrastructure and environment to allow for scientific work to take place in. In
particular, this work was carried out together with Frank Meier and Julian
Wishahi.

\par
The thesis structure is as follows:

In the first chapter the \SM is shortly recapped with an emphasis on flavour
physics and \CP violation in the quark sector. The nature of Yukawa
interactions and the appearance of the \CKM matrix through spontaneous symmetry
breaking are summarised. Then, the time evolution of \Bmesons including decay
and flavour oscillations is outlined. Finally, an overview of the measurement of
\CP violation in the decay of \BdToJpsiKS is prepared.

The \LHCb detector and its subsystems are briefly described in the second
chapter with particular attention to the track reconstruction and \PID
techniques.

As it plays an important role in this analysis the flavour tagging algorithms
utilised at \LHCb are discussed in more detail. After a general overview and a
comparison to developments at the \BFactories the flavour tagging algorithms are
explained. Afterwards, the calibration of the flavour tagging output is
motivated and explained. The performance of the methods is then described and
an outlook on recent developments is given.

The main chapter contains the details of the performed measurement. The data
taking and preparation is explained as well as studies of potential background
contributions. The influence of decay time acceptance and resolution effects is
briefly summarised. Before the results are presented the likelihood function is
presented. Finally, all studies of systematic effects are collected.

This thesis concludes with a summary and puts the results in context to the
global \CKM picture. Furthermore, \RunTwo and \LHCb upgrade prospects are
presented.

\begin{itemize}
  \item symmetries in nature
  \item noether theorem?
  \item broken symmetries
  \item history of CPV
  \item CPV in the SM, CKM mechanism
  \item CPV in lepton sector
  \item golden channel, sin2beta
  \item Measurement of sin2beta at B factories
  \item CKM unitarity
  \item matter-antimatter asymmetry
  \item ckm unitarity tests
  \item BSM physics
  \item indirect searches for BSM physics
  \item CPV at LHCb
  \item BdToJpsiKS (Vub tension)
  \item short summary of measurement
\end{itemize}
